+++
title = "The role of miRNA expression in cortical development during conversion to psychosis"
date = 2017-12-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2017-12-01T18:00:00
#time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00
all_day = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = []

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "<b>BACKGROUND:</b> An increased rate of cortical thinning has been observed in individuals at clinical high risk who convert to psychosis relative to non-converters and typically developing controls in the North American Prodromal Longitudinal Study (NAPLS). Levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines at baseline, which reflect increased systemic inflammation, were correlated with the rate of cortical thinning, suggesting this neurodevelopmental trajectory may be coordinated in part by increased inflammatory signaling. We investigated gene expression pathways within these cells to nominate cellular systems that may be important to cortical maturation during conversion to psychosis.  <br/><br/><b>METHODS:</b> We used a forward stepwise regression algorithm to identify microRNA expression – hub regulators of mRNA – in peripheral leukocytes associated with annualized rate of reduction in gray matter in a subsample of NAPLS (N=74). <br/><br/><b>RESULTS:</b> Nine microRNAs were included in a single classifier for cortical thinning, p=3.63 x 10-08, R2=.358, permutation-based p=.039, the mRNA targets of which were enriched for intracellular signaling pathways involved in coordinating inflammatory responses within immune cells (p<.05, Benjamini-Hochberg corrected). The classifier was also related to pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (p=.038). <br/><br/><b>CONCLUSIONS:</b> MicroRNAs identified here have been previously linked to brain development, synaptic plasticity, immune function and/or schizophrenia, demonstrating some convergence across studies and methodologies. Perturbations in intracellular signaling pathways regulating inflammation may promote disease onset among those at high risk for psychosis via alterations in cortical maturation."
abstract_short = "  "

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "American College of Neuropsychopharmacology"
event_url = "https://acnp.societyconference.com/conf/#sessions/conf10019"

# Location of event.
location = "Palm Springs, CA"

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this talk with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "miRNA_ACNP_Dec2017.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "World Congress of Psychiatric Genetics, Glasgow, Scotland"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = "Right"
+++

{{% alert note %}}
Click on the **Slides** button above to view the built-in slides feature.
{{% /alert %}}

Slides can be added in a few ways:

- **Create** slides using Academic's *Slides* feature and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Upload** an existing slide deck to `static/` and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Embed** your slides (e.g. Google Slides) or presentation video on this page using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/).

Further talk details can easily be added to this page using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
