+++
title = "Multivariate pattern analysis of schizophrenia-associated genetic variants in relation to cognitive endophenotypes"
date = 2016-05-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2016-05-01T18:00:00
#time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00
all_day = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = []

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "<b>BACKGROUND:</b> Polygenic risk scores for schizophrenia – aggregate measures of genetic risk –predict a variety of endophenotypes, suggesting that risk genes confer vulnerability via intermediate levels of impairment, like cognition. However, this method offers no insight into which genes or combinations of genes drive these effects. Furthermore, it cannot capture complex, non-linear effects (i.e., multi-gene interactions), which are known to play a role in the etiology of schizophrenia. <br/><br/><b>METHODS:</b> We used random forest, an ensemble machine-learning approach, to predict six cognitive phenotypes in a sample of patients and controls (N = 739) using genetic variants previously identified in a large genome-wide association study of schizophrenia. Cross-validation was applied to the discovery sample and results were validated in an independent sample of similar ancestry (N = 364). For comparison, we ran generalized linear models (GLM) including all variants, as well as calculated polygenic scores, to predict each of the same outcomes. <br/><br/><b>RESULTS:</b> Random forest models for visual memory, verbal memory, and processing speed replicated in an independent sample. Conversely, no GLM models replicated and polygenic scores for only one cognitive outcome significantly predicted performance in an independent sample. <br/><br/><b>CONCLUSIONS:</b> Identifying genotypic patterns can increase the predictive power of genotypes on cognitive phenotypes, suggesting that genetic effects on cognition may depend on particular combinations. As such, pattern analysis can provide an advance in genotype-phenotype mapping that may aid in delineating the neurobiological pathways by which known risk loci for schizophrenia confer vulnerability."
abstract_short = "  "

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Society for Biological Psychiatry"
event_url = "https://sobp.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Atlanta, GA"

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this talk with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "ML-PGC_SOBP_May2016.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = "World Congress of Psychiatric Genetics, Glasgow, Scotland"

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = "Right"
+++

{{% alert note %}}
Click on the **Slides** button above to view the built-in slides feature.
{{% /alert %}}

Slides can be added in a few ways:

- **Create** slides using Academic's *Slides* feature and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Upload** an existing slide deck to `static/` and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Embed** your slides (e.g. Google Slides) or presentation video on this page using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/).

Further talk details can easily be added to this page using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
